The configuration register is a 16 bit number once again that resides in the nv ram of a router.
It affects Rodda behavior the least significant bits of the configuration register are called the boot
field and this determines how the router locates Cisco Iowas software the configuration register is
16 bits in size but is displayed once again in hexadecimal.
You'll have access to the configuration register software which is part of the score's and this allows
you to see the various options of the binary bits that make up the configuration register the default
value of the configuration register is once again 0 0 2 1 0 2.
We can see that there are 16 bits that make up the configuration register the least significant but
but zero.
And that goes up to 15.
So this first number in hexadecimal is the most significant.
This last two contains the least significant four bits which is the boot field.
We can configure the configuration register as follows through the Cisco IOS but you can change the
valleys so as an example if you want to set the speed of the console to 1 1 5 200 bits per second rather
than the default of 9600 bits per second you could configure the configuration register as follows.
Sending it back to default the speed is not changed back to 9600 bits per second.
If you change it to 2 1 4 to.
That means that but 6 is set which means ignore nv ram.
That means that the router will boot up and not to load the startup config which is very useful when
doing Ponsford recovery.
There are various other options here.
You can also look at the Cisco documentation
which shows the what the configuration register values mean.
So if you want to see this on a web page there's an example of 0 x 2 1 4 2 which means ignore nonvolatile
RAM.
So it ignores the configuration and the speed is set to 9600 bits per second.
But otherwise you can use the software which you get as part of the course.
If you want to see what various options are.
So once again if we change the speed to 11 5 200.
Notice these bits are set.
But 12 but 11 but 5 and put one.
If we change the speed to 9200
noticed other values are set but 12 and this example is not set.
But if I check that option.
Notice the speed of the console port is changed for the CCN a course.
The values that you want to know are 2 1 0 2 which means normal boot.
If we change it to 2 1 0 0 0 that means that the router is going to boot into run monitor mode.
To 140 means by postes startup configuration
and to 1 is 0 1 means boot into boot mode is supported on older Cisco routers.
They had a mini Iowas called aurochs boot.
Modern routers don't have that.
A value of 2 1 0 1 means that the ratable boot up using the first operating system in Flash.